Implement Secureworks to aggregate and analyze data from a variety of AWS log sources and 
services (e.g. CloudTrail, VPC Flow Logs),Azure Active Directory, Azure Activity
Logs, Azure Security Center, NSG Flow Logs and Storage Blobs to prevent security
breaches, detect malicious activity in real time, respond rapidly, and predict emerging 
threats.

Leverages Prisma Cloud to provide visibility and control over public cloud environments 
while extending security to hosts, containers and serverless functions with a single, 
unified agent framework.

Create and enable Prisma custom policies to monitors resources deployed on the 
Public cloud environments—AWS, Microsoft Azure for cloud security and compliance risks
to ensure resource configurations adhere to industry standards.

Integrates Prisma cloud with continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) 
workflow to secure cloud infrastructure and applications early in development, scan 
infrastructure-as-code (IaC) templates, container images, serverless functions and 
more while gaining powerful, full-stack runtime protection.

Integrate configuration change alerts (Prisma) into DevOps and SecOps workflows to 
automatically resolve issues, streamlines the process of identifying issues, detecting 
and responding to a list of prioritized risks to maintain an agile development process 
and operational efficiency.

Automation is a no-code rule builder that enables customers to build if-this-then-that-rules based on events in Jira
It allows teams to automate their processes, save time, keep Jira up to date and focus on what’s most important.


Automation is completely customizable. This means you can set up rules to suit your needs whatever they are. Some common use cases are:

    When your last sub-task closes, then close the parent issue.
    When a bug fix is shipped, then close all issues and notify customers.
    When a customer raises an issue in Jira Service Management, create a cloned issue in Jira Software and assign it to an engineer.

We have set you up with sample rule templates in your instance so you can quickly get started with common use cases.
                                                                                                                                                                                       
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   
																																													   _||
Build a fully automated, highly elastic cloud framework, leveraging deployment automation 
and configuration management frameworks such as Jenkins and Ansible.




 